foreign
thank you everyone I'm Cameron
um cro velassian it's basically run
sales marketing customer success and
support most the go to market functions
they run me I've been there for about 10
years seen a ton of growth over the time
and here I'm going to talk about largely
how we became the organization we are
today and how we plan to scale our
business going forward leveraging this
amazing ecosystem that we've been able
to build over the 20 years we've been in
business
so when I started at a company literally
almost exactly 10 years ago we're
already a successful business
we really did about 100 million in
Revenue had about 20 000 customers for
all intents and purposes we were very
established well-known organization at
that time
but now 10 years later we've been able
to grow our business to over 3 billion
in revenue and over 240 000 paid
customers which I have to pinch myself
every day when we start to see the scale
but we're not stopping there what we're
here to talk about today is actually our
future goal of how we're going to get to
10 billion and Beyond in revenue and how
we're going to do that is hand in hand
not by ourselves but with our ecosystem
our broad set of Partners technology
Partners solution partners and I'm gonna
go through today and talk about largely
how those how that broader ecosystem
came to be you know and I'd love to say
it was a clear strategy from day one
that we executed flawlessly but that is
absolutely not the truth with leads me
to my next Point here and I love this
quote from Mark Twain I'm about to
simplify 20 years of complex business
Partnerships and relationships supported
by a technology platform into a
30-minute presentation
so if it seems like overly simplified it
is if it seems too good to be true it's
because I made it that way the reality
is a whole lot of pain and frustration
tears
challenges I'm even sure I'll get an
email today by someone like hey Cameron
you were writing the presentation on
slide eight like like these programs are
never done they're never complete you
have to continually iterate and work on
them for them to be successful so but if
you'll bear with me let's dive in with a
little bit of background
now AAU is actually supposed to be a
Australian flag but that's cool Au
stands for Australia listen our company
was founded by these two fine looking
young gentlemen in 2002 in Australia and
what's important is both the time 2002
recession and Australia far away from
everywhere else
okay and they started and they built a
product called jira many companies use
that today for tracking a lot of their
software development projects issues
work in general two years later they
built another product called confluence
and now 20 years later
the company has massively grown we have
over 20 products in our portfolio and
they are still co-ceos of the business
Drive much of our strategy important
decisions today as we have 10 000 plus
employees and for you budding
entrepreneurs out there who want to know
what success really looks like there you
go
Bubba Gump hat and a giant beard I did
ask permission so I will not get fired
for using these they are good sports so
thanks Mike and Scott if you watch this
video
okay obviously our portfolio has grown
from two products to now 20 different
products in our portfolio of different
sizes different markets we compete in
three separate markets agile and devops
largely helping software development
teams build and ship software I.T
service management and I.T operations
helping I.T organizations become more
productive and of course broader Work
Management for all helping teams of all
types manage and track their work and
align that to their strategic goals and
outcomes
but one of our core beliefs from day one
this is core to our ecosystem is that
it's not just going to be at lasting
applications that help power businesses
the reality is I think you see it today
the amount of new applications coming
out into the market every day is immense
the amount like I just kind of believe
that if any business user or team has a
problem a unique problem there's going
to be a technology solution in the
future to solve that and it's a Fool's
errand to think one vendor one company
is going to be able to solve all those
use cases we actually think there's
gonna be hundreds there are already
hundreds probably thousands of apps in
the future that we'll have to use and we
take an open Expo we take an open view
of this from a platform and ecosystem
perspective from day one we want our
products to work well with all the other
products out there in the market
now very quickly I do want to talk about
our business model because this does
Drive much of our ecosystem thinking and
strategy now
the big thing with an elastium business
model and we can do a whole 30-minute
presentation also the loan is we are
unique we've been able to grow to over 3
billion in Revenue while keeping sales
and marketing spend under 15 of Revenue
for all 20 years we've been in business
now the reason for this is from day one
we took very much a product LED
self-service e-commerce approach to
Enterprise software which I'm sure for
many of you out there who are starting
newer SAS companies are like of course
you're doing that 2002 out of Australia
not many companies selling software over
the web right and that but the goal goal
here was try to make it as easy and
simple as possible for our customers to
get from having a problem to into the
product and solving their problem with
as many few barriers as possible web
forms get rid of them you know talk to a
fill out a lead form get rid of it talk
to a sales rep get rid of it we try to
make sure that that customer could get
to Value as quick as possible and let
the product and Next Step very low
pricing allow the product to effectively
sell itself
and that's our next step here once we
could bring those customers in we
attacked with growth teams funnel teams
data scientists marketers content
marketers we try to expand and show that
give basically answer any question that
a prospect would have that they would
need to get answered before they
actually gave us their credit card
information was openly available on our
website including pricing and to this
day 20 years later we have some of the
biggest companies in the world we have
one set list price and it's all on our
website we do not negotiate pricing with
any single customer every customer gets
the best price it's a hard thing to hold
to but it's part of what makes this
flywheel work
of course once we actually transact to
get those customers we try and do
everything we can to turn those
customers into Champions a lot of this
makes sure that our customers not only
come to us when they need help but they
actually go to other customers and
that's an amazing thing that we've been
able to build is we have this enormous
Community both online and in person of
honestly power users Champions that just
simply have changed their careers with
the use of our products and they're out
there actively promoting our products so
when they change jobs they bring our
products with them or when they're
working with others they're helping
others use our products to solve their
own business problems this virtuous
cycle is what really keeps our flywheel
business going it helps us land
thousands of net new customers with zero
human interaction now that's it we do
have sales teams now I have technical
account managers we do all this crazy
serious Enterprise stuff but I'm telling
you we will land thousands of net new
customers this quarter with zero sales
interaction and that's something we
still drive as our overall business
but of course what we're here to talk
about today none of this would happen
without our broad what we call ecosystem
and I want to Define this ecosystem it's
going to say we do Partnerships and then
that sounds very Broad and hand wavy but
when we think Partnerships we think
three big categories solution Partners
Marketplace partners and strategic
technology Partners let me dive into
each one and how each came to be each
are at different levels of maturity with
our organization
now I think I already already called out
two dudes in Australia no Capital cool
solution and a website
yeah and the reality is they started
selling some products and they realized
they were really good at selling
products Building Products putting on
the website and the business was largely
coming in Fairly organically but of
course as you can imagine most of their
customers were not in Australia well so
customers are in Europe North America
South America coming around the globe
largely where there's Technology Centers
where our applications could be used
now I would love to say that they could
go raise capital and start building
teams in Europe and building offices
around the world and having Market teams
and support teams and all that but one
they couldn't raise Capital remember
this 2002 2003 it's a bad time to raise
Capital but also at the prices they had
in the market it's like wait a minute
this takes us away from our core what we
want to go do build great software
so instead
they started bringing on partners
now once again I think this happens a
little bit organically what happened is
some customers out there were largely
kind of small consulting firms that
ended up using our products to track
their work for their clients then
quickly realized that all of their
clients have the same problem and they
could actually help their customers
Implement our products to help them
track their work so very organic so they
would come to us and say hey do you have
anyone that wants to do some consultant
implementation work or hey we could
actually know a client that could
actually sell these products for you you
know and what often happens is these
very small I.T consulting firms very
small boutiques started we just signed
them up sure you know sign up you're an
official partner now we'll put your logo
on the website we'll give you give your
email address and your phone we'll give
you a little bit of margin if you sell
our licenses and off you go
and once again this sounds very simple
much more complex than this but over the
time we built we got more customers and
in line we brought on more Partners now
one decision we made very very early on
is we started basically deciding from a
go to market perspective so atlassian
was going to be the best at an automated
self-service product driven funnel we're
gonna do so we're going to do content
we're gonna do online marketing we're
gonna do Performance Marketing we're
going to optimize through growth funnels
and if customers want in-person support
why you want someone in their office
doing demos filling out rfps security
questionnaires in-person implementation
Services in-person training in-person
you know in the time zone they want and
the language they want we were going to
largely hand that to our partners
largely it make that the role of our
partners and what ended up happening is
we'd have hundreds of customers coming
in every single week asking for that
hand holding and what we largely try and
do is say well listen we have all that
information you need online here you go
self-service but if you still like to
speak with one of your partners here's
three in your region your country your
city you name it right and we largely
hand that customer off to the partner
sounds sort of crazy but it's worked
today we have over 700 certified
solution Partners in 84 countries
worldwide and on top of that we have a
massive program within our own
organization built to enable train
certify do deal registration co-sell
with our partners we largely have built
an entire machine to keep this virtuous
cycle of customers and partners being
successful going
and it's worked
three solution Partners last year alone
we did over a billion dollars in sales
I didn't know I was going to be in a
tent today sorry the uh over a billion
dollars in sales and on top of that that
doesn't include all of their own
services and training what have you
that's another big benefit of this
ecosystem is that there's the huge
investment outside of Alaska going into
making our customers successful on top
of our solution partners
so what do we learn a few things along
the way to make this successful
first and foremost
when you bring on Partners many of you
will probably start figuring out like
hey we should bring out a bunch of
partners because then we'll get more
customers and it's actually the other
way around you have to be thinking about
if you want to bring on new partners how
do we actually get their business
growing how do we get them addicted to
the atlassian business you know by
introducing them to our customers you
have to open up your customer portfolio
and introduce them so that they can get
their ball rolling and get their own
Investments and that will allow them to
pursue their own more Investments going
forward that's largely backwards with
many companies we're gonna open a
channel to get new customers it's like
no get them into your customer base
first
the second is you have to be exceedingly
clear on the role you want your channel
to play
okay now I'm not saying that what
atlassian did which is largely hand off
the entire customer relationship
directly to a partner is the right one
you have to pick for you but you have to
be very clear what you want from your
partners and be very clear with your
customers the value your partners
provide if it's on the sales and
marketing side fine focus on that if
it's on customer service and training
fine focus on that because that leads to
the next thing you have to avoid Channel
Conflict at all costs and what's
happened over the time is as
organization obviously we handed off
many of these capabilities that custom
relationship to our partners but of
course internally we've grown and we've
hided our own teams what happens we
start to overlap doing some of the same
things whether that's training whether
it's technical account management
whether that's sales you know and you
can start confusing your partners and
start confusing your customers so we
build lots of programs to ensure that
those roles and responsibilities between
us and our channel are crystal clear and
my general rule is we never want to give
a customer any reason not to work with a
partner if there's any incentive for a
customer to come directly to atlassian
for a service you get instead of working
with a partner then we have failed and
with that general rule we've been able
to establish and maintain and grow this
massive Channel with our solution
partners
so let's go on to the next to get a
little more advanced here and talk about
our Marketplace
okay anyone here in the atlassian
marketplace
okay I get a few hands cool okay
now let's go way back this
is jira.alassian.com bask in its Glory
okay this is well before we hired
anything called a designer at atlassian
but this was a public site run on jira
where we tracked all the work our entire
backlog in our entire development
organization was tracked on this public
jira site but more importantly this is
also where customers could and still can
today submit feature requests
but like any successful company I'm sure
many of you will run into this we
immediately ran into this core dilemma
our customer demands the amount of
features going into jira.alassian.com
always outpaced our ability to deliver
on those features right that's just the
inherent nature of building successful
products in a growing customer base
so how do we solve this
okay analysis from atlassian lore thank
you Mike when he was 22 years old Mike
got on a plane and on a flight back from
the U.S to Australia and technically you
go the other way we just couldn't find a
map that looked that way yeah
um Mike was really disturbed by this
he's like God like this is going to be a
problem forever how do we get ahead of
this and he came up with a simple
solution
if we're not going to build all the
features that our customers want simple
we'll let them build their own damn
features and on that plane ride he built
the first evolution of what is called
our plug-in framework which effectively
was a customization layer on top of our
applications that was exceedingly
powerful
you know it basically change workflows
change the ux change your apis super
power allowing a developer to really get
in there and mess around with the guts
of our products but being a developer
Mike kind of loved that he was like you
know what if we have really smart
customers let them solve their own
problems if I wanted this this is how I
would build this for myself so he
largely built it with Incredible
flexibility
the result is it took off our customers
largely very technical audiences as well
as our solution Partners started
building tons of plugins and our
solution Partners would build plugins
and then charge for them as part of
their services engagements so we knew
that was happening we also realize that
all these plugins were out there and
that we would talk to customers and they
talked about these cool plugins they
built but we realized like man other
customers would benefit from this so we
took the next step and we built the
plug-in exchange another info
beautifully designed without 2006 you
know website which was a free website
where our customers could simply post
plug post these plugins and share them
with each other no cost it was basically
a branding effort marketing effort but
it may immediately happened is our
customers every single one of our
customers automatically got like a
thousand new features a thousand new
Integrations right all of a sudden they
weren't just waiting around for our
roadmap we had this broad set the rest
of our customers solving their own needs
opened up the aperture of the use cases
that we could solve
now remember this is late 2000s so Apple
App Store started taking off enterprise
software companies were all starting to
build their own marketplaces and of
course we were no exception
2012 we decided to change the plug-in
exchange into the atlassian marketplace
and we allowed to turn this free this
free experience where people were just
sharing plugins into a commercial
Enterprise allowed our customers to very
easily discover these new capabilities
We rebranded Them apps from plugins so
they could find new capabilities but
also have more trust through this
commercial relationship to ensure that
they get support and slas and Security
reviews and a variety of certifications
on top of that we allowed all of these
plug-in creators whether they're
independent software vendors or simple
single developers to you know make some
money selling these plugins or these
apps to their peers in the industry and
I cannot tell you how many individuals
I've met that turned into millionaires
just in a couple years they built a few
cool like dashboards in jira and put
them up in the marketplace you know and
two years later they've retired right
they're like don't ever have to work
again it was just amazing that we were
at Big Marketplace and today this is a
critical part of our overall go to
market experience when you sign up for
an atlassian product you're not just
getting the use cases and features that
atlassian built you're getting access to
thousands literally thousands of apps
that can solve use cases that atlassian
product managers would never even think
of the industry-specific use cases say
uh report in specific use cases
workflows automations you name it
there's rarely a feature you can think
of where there's probably not two or
three potential answers in our
Marketplace and if there isn't we have a
variety of marketplace vendors out there
looking to build new stuff all the time
or if you're your own development team
you can build your own apps solve your
own problems
once again
took a long time but over the last 10
years we've done over two billion
dollars in lifetime sales through our
Marketplace
show the scope of what the type of
business we've done here more
importantly we've taken one and a half
billion of that and given it back to our
Marketplace vendors
okay that's one and a half billion
dollars in investment into our ecosystem
that has allowed them to raise more
Capital allowed them to hire more
developers allow them to build more apps
thus expand our use cases that we can
support and thus bring in more customers
into our ecosystem itself so great this
is a wonderful Revenue line item for our
business but that's not the primary
value prop the primary value prop is all
those use cases that we basically get on
top of the atlassian ecosystem
now a few key learnings for all of you
once again this didn't happen overnight
and that's my biggest piece of advice
here patience
as you can imagine just from this story
everything I just mentioned here was not
like Hey we're gonna go build a
Marketplace from day one when Mike got
on that plane and built the plug-in
framework there was no concept of this
will be a multi-billion dollar
Enterprise this was we're trying to
solve a customer problem and we were
exceedingly patient to monetize this
opportunity over a long period of time
that leads to my second
having an ecosystem like this there are
other business benefits beyond
monetizing the transaction for example
we know if a jira customer installs more
than two apps into their jira instance
their retention rates go through the
roof and that makes perfect sense
they're largely customizing our products
to a specific business use case to their
specific workflows it gets exceedingly
sticky at that time and that customer
retention is worth way more than any
dollars we can make off the marketplace
itself
yeah and lastly the power and this is
I'm not going to tell you how to build
the plug-in framework not my game but
one thing that Mike made that decision
early on and the rest of our R D team
does to today was to ensure that these
pal that we give a lot of power through
our extensibility capabilities through
our plug-in connect in our Forge
Frameworks to ensure that customers have
a lot of flexibility in what they can
build and if you're a product manager a
designer in this room that might scare
you because effectively what we decided
was to hand off
much of that core experience to trust
our customers and partners to manipulate
it in a way that makes most sense for
them and that's given up keys to the
kingdom here the user experiences in
your hands you have control customer
okay but if that had worked out
drastically in our case
now lastly I want to probably say our
most nascent the less programmatic of
our Partnerships what we call our
strategic technology Partnerships
and why the Strategic technology
partnership is that each and every one
of these relationships is one-off it's
not something you just repeat again
that's very specific to the customer
value we're trying to drive the
opportunity we have from a development
and integration perspective and of
course our individual business models so
we do these very selectively with key
vendors that we know we can work with
now does anyone remember hipchat
anyone we got a few hardcore old folks
around here atlassian
was in the messenger market for quite
some time we had hip chat was a great
messaging application we later replaced
it with stride which is an updated
modern platform so that could scale and
was highly competitive in the market for
messaging but of course at that time as
we continued to grow this business we
started to see slack on its meteoric
rise remember those days right we saw it
going through and increasingly in our
customer base while we saw plenty
adoption of stride and hip chat we were
increasingly see adoption of slack and
slack customers coming to us and say God
it would be great if Confluence could
integrate with this or I would love to
be able to interact with the jira ticket
through this like these great very
useful use cases and our customers
wanted it
so we took a step back
made a hard decision and decided to sell
our stride business to Slack
we took our we stepped out of the
messaging Market we took an investment
in slack and we agreed to a joint
partnership where we would build deep
Integrations between our two platforms
deeper than either of us would have been
able to do outside of this partnership
and we also established a business
relationship allowing us to promote
slack to our customers and vice versa to
date this has drove on over 50 000 joint
customers there were 50 000 teams out
there integrating slack with elastium
products and vice versa making both of
our products stickier and delivering
more value for our customers and of
course driving more customers across the
board for both of our businesses
that was not an easy decision but it was
also one of the most strategic that we
have made and has been extremely
successful for us
now we have a similaration with
relationship with sneak many of you
might know sneak as a security
development platform as part of the
atlassian ventures arm which is our
investment side of our house we took an
investment in sneak and as part of that
relationship we also realized that we
have code hosting and code collaboration
capabilities in our bitbucket products
but we do not have security capabilities
we do not build any security tools and
we know most of our customers needed
security capability a security tool we
simply made it easier for them to try
use Discover it natively inside a
bitbucket so we actually have a sneak
tab directly in the bitbucket interface
this allows us to provide a great
capability that most of our customers
need but more importantly Drive
thousands of New China sign ups for this
great new vendor in our ecosystem
supporting that relationship going
forward
now these are harder of course we can
drive much Behavior but you can see the
relationships are different so three
pieces of device coming out of this is
one
understand when to partner and
understand when to compete build by
partner is a hard thing you can simplify
it and I tell you that's a very very
hard decision understand the math
understand your strategy understand your
position in the market but sometimes the
partnership is the best thing to drive
your business going forward
second if you're going to establish a
partnership like this be crystal clear
on your goals for both sides it's very
easy when you're doing business
development to go like this and you use
big words like partnership and success
and happy customers and you're like
great what the [__] are we doing find my
language
yeah you have to have clear metrics and
goals on each side of the partnership
that are equitable and that you can
measure and hold both teams accountable
to because the second one of those
Partners doesn't feel like they're that
they're getting the short end of that
stick that partnership will end it very
very quickly establish the goals hold
your teams accountable to the goals get
out if you're not hitting the goals you
can waste everyone's time
okay lastly culture I always make the
joke here man it's hard enough getting
stuff done with in our business you know
and they work for us
you know how much harder it is to get
someone outside of our business to do
something as well and the only way we've
seen that work on top of goals is to
have that right culture and values fit
make sure that that part that
organization you are partnering with is
an organization that know that you know
that effectively can collaborate well
with your teams and work through those
Hard Times exceedingly important
so those are our three big categories of
what we consider our partners in our
broader ecosystem
but I'd be remiss to say that there's a
big technology component that supports
all of this and this largely came down
to that last scene has dozens you know
20 different products in the portfolio
and all of them were built independently
so we went out and tried to build all
these Partnerships when our partners
start actually working with our products
it felt like working with 20 different
companies you gotta imagine that was
really complex made it nearly impossible
to scale
[Music]
okay yeah sorry for the wind so how do
we solve for this and we had this own
internal problem at lasting we
continually saw our product teams doing
the same work across their repeating the
same work you know Confluence had to
build to build a search capability jira
built a search capability we wanted
sharing capabilities at mentions likes
core infrastructure you name it
so we went over a multi-year
hundreds of millions of dollars in
investment to build the Alaska and Cloud
platform
the lasting Cloud platform became our
common platform on which all of our
products and by extension our ecosystem
relies upon
the idea here was build the common
capabilities that every every product
and every extent every app needs once
and allow them to reuse those platform
components across across their different
deployments this of course starts with
the simple things like where do you host
the application and infrastructure and
compliance requirements like the basic
sets that's very important to talk about
Enterprise So when you buy one atlassian
product and we check all your compliance
requirements you automatically get all
the other product compliance
requirements with it makes it very easy
for customers to expand their use cases
but we went beyond infrastructure and we
talked about extensibility historically
we asked app vendors to build their own
apps and their code and hosting
somewhere host it somewhere and then
integrate with atlassian we expected
them to be these little small SAS
companies and handle all the compliance
requirements of our biggest customers
nearly impossible with Forge we have an
app development infrastructure where our
partners can now and our customers build
their own apps and deploy them within
atlassian's infrastructure we support
that with also features and capabilities
analytics automation collaboration
capabilities like sharing and app
mentions and our teamwork directory are
all components our products reused but
also by extension our Marketplace
Partners can reuse to build really rich
custom bespoke Solutions tied directly
to the use cases that our customers
demand
and that's really what the platform
truly enables and broader ecosystem
enables when you buy an atlassian
product yes you get a set of features
and a roadmap in a set of use cases that
out of the box we spend all of our time
thinking about
but because this is powered by an
extensible platform and our broader
ecosystem you get optionality and
flexibility thus when we have a
competitive bake off between an elastic
and Proctor and competitors we're not
going down a feature checklist we're
going down to what features can't we
actually build eventually or workflows
we can't enable there's rarely a use
case that a customer can come up with
that there isn't a solution in the
marketplace or a capability of VR
automation analytics workflow
capabilities that the customer can
customize because of the platform itself
this of course allows our entire
business to thrive because we continue
to extend our use cases extend that
openness that capability and of course
extend the value that our customers see
from the atlassian platform and that's
truly what's helped us drive our
business to the success we've met today
and success that we continue to go as we
get to 10 billion dollars
now I think as I've gone through like
the few key learnings along the way I
have three big ones that are the common
threads that like honestly as I built
this deck I was taken away
the first is patience
none of this is easy none of this is
fast so if you're thinking about we're
going to build a big cloud platform and
how to build an ecosystem start
Partnerships and money will start coming
out of the out the other side in 12
months or 18 months you're fooling
yourselves these things are never done
it will take a long time to build them
but it is worth that investment you need
to balance that
the second is Trust
much of what made our ecosystem
successful is that we trusted our
partners we trusted our customers we
trusted them with a lot of power over
their overall experience and how they
used our products and that kind of
fights at odds when it's like hey this
is our products we we own this
experience you know we built it
perfectly you know yeah the idea is no
like give them control in the system let
them decide what is best for them and
allow them to thrive and Empower that
and then lastly know that you're never
done
goals metrics continuous Improvement
I'll tell you today if you're in that
last an ecosystem today you're probably
like I know there's like 16 things wrong
that we need to go fix don't worry we're
working on it it's one of those you will
never be done so keep this if this is
actually a strategy as a company you
want to implement know that it's
something that will continue to work in
the background of your business in
perpetuity and that you will always
continue to have to improve to make sure
that business value continues to grow
for your customers
foreign
[Music]